OK.
And we're back, and now we're going to learn about the ends with method, this method simply tells
us if a string ends with some other smaller string.
OK?
One place where you might want to use this for an example, could be if you allow users to enter a file
name for some reason, and you want to make sure that any file name that they enter the text of the
file name that they enter ends with some specific extension like that tea or something like that, or
Dot Excel s anything of that sort.
Now, I'm not saying that that's the only use case for this method.
That's just one somewhat typical sounding example.
OK, but there may be many others that you might want to do.
Basically, anytime you want to check and maybe enforce that users are naming things or entering text
in a particular way.
All right.
So let's see what that might look like.
We will come over here.
Oops.
Clear that out.
And, as always, will create a.
Yeah.
Well, let's do this file.
File name.
So let's pretend like we have a variable where we've allowed the user to enter some text for a file
name now, in this case, we're not actually allowing them to enter any text, we're just going to set
the text ourselves.
We're going to hardcoded the text and pretend like it came from user input.
So let's say we've got some my filed text t.
OK, then we'll do a System.out.println line, and we'll call the file name that ends with method,
and so we will ask the ends with method.
Does this string end with text?
OK.
Just like that.
And so then if we run this.
And we get back a true.
So again, this is a method that returns a boolean true or false.
And then it's being conveyed, it's being shown on the screen as text, but it's not really text internally
that's being returned.
That's just how it's being shown to us so that we as humans can read it.
All right.
So that returned a true.
So what if we said if we ask it a different question, like does that string end with D.O.C.?
OK, and now we get a false because of course, it's not ending with D.O.C., it's ending with text.
Let's try one other little scenario here.
Let's add the period on there as well and see if that has any any impact.
OK, still true.
So, yeah, this this method is quite simple, it just it just starts from the back of the string and
then it compares character by character up to whatever you had there.
So it's just starting in the back of the string and then comparing up so it ignores whatever's in the
front of the string in order to do its comparison.
And while we're at it, let's go ahead and take a look at its sibling method, which is the starts with
method.
OK, so we'll do a starts with.
And for this scenario, let's say that we have a bunch of files that we want to make sure that we want
to make sure start with some pattern like file zero zero one.
Dot t t.
So in this case, we may want to just make sure that maybe there's a bunch of files in a in a folder
that should all start with the pattern file and then a number and then that text.
So we might want to just make sure that they all have the word file at the beginning.
OK.
So if we run this.
OK, so we get a true.
So what if we have one that doesn't start that way?
What if it starts with a z, blah blah blah, whatever?
Now, let's run that.
OK, so now we get a false as we expected.
So even though the the the string file is contained within this string, this string does not start
with the word file and therefore the starts with method is returning false.
So it's only checking from the very beginning.
It has to be there at the very beginning for it to be true.
Let's do one other quick little thing also.
What about spaces?
Let's see if spaces matter.
Yes, space does matter, and so even though the first visible character is F, the start of the string
is not f, the start of the string is empty space.
Now, as a quick little challenge and review, can you figure out a way without adding any more lines
of code here where you could leave that space right there, but make this still turn out to be true?
So you're not going to add any more lines of code, but you can add something as a hint to maybe the
end of this string here, or maybe even to the end of that string there.
All right.
So why don't you pause the video?
See if you can figure that one out and then come back in a in a few moments?
OK, so how did you do?
So there are a couple of ways, at least, that you could do this.
One way is that you could put a period here and you can call our trusty strip method.
OK, so now if we run this.
We get true.
And that's because this string is first being stripped of any leading or trailing spaces.
And then that result is being stored in this variable.
And then the question is being asked as to whether or not this variable starts with the word file,
which by this point in time, it does now.
Another way that we could do this, which is pretty much the same thing.
We could also do the strip right here.
Strip.
So here, retaining methods together, and I haven't shown much of that, or I might not have shown
any of it, but yes, you can change these methods together in this case.
Now the reason I can do this is because the strip method, if I if I hover my cursor over this method,
I can see what's called the Java doc that is the documentation of how to use this method.
And I can see here that this method strip returns a string.
It returns the string, the resulting string after we have stripped out the space, OK?
And so it is with this new re re resulting string that we are then calling the starts with method.
OK.
So we're going from this string to well, so we're going from this string to.
A new string that doesn't have any spaces, and then it is that string that we're not seeing that string
here explicitly, but it is implied by the fact that the strip method returns of string and then it
is this new string.
Who we are calling starts with on another way that we could see this to make it a little more obvious,
perhaps, would be to extract the variable out.
So having a file named at strip method all selected here, I can do command option or command Alt V
for variable.
And maybe I'll call this stripped string.
OK.
And so now you can see we're taking the stripped string and then we're asking, does it start with the
word file?
OK, but now I've introduced another line of code, which, you know, I was challenging you not to
have to do that, but in real life, this is perfectly good.
In fact, it might even be better because it's a little more clear what we're seeing here.
OK.
All right.
So that's going to do it for this quick little lesson on ends with and starts with pretty useful methods
from time to time and I'll see in the next one.